Let's start with the favorites.
I want to make sure that when I'm in a recipe I can click that star and that adds it is as a favorite
and shows adhere to favorite screen where I currently see nothing because I removed these dummy favorites
for that.
I'll start in the store folder in the actions folder and add a new folder which I'll all the name meals
J asked you can name it differently if that's confusing to you but get these two files meals J here
and actions and meals charts and road users and then the actions meals.
J ust fall I will set up some redux actions which typically starts by setting up some unique identifiers
which I store in constants and that will be toggle favorite.
You can use whatever you want here.
The value you store here typically is the same identifier.
So this is the identifier value and that is simply stored in a constant so that we don't have to manually
type this later but we can always import this constant in the void.
Typos.
Again if it's brand new to you.
Definitely check out a dedicated react read X resource first.
Now also use the action create or pattern here.
Which means I have that identifier here but now I will also export a function that creates me action
because an action is not just an identifier often and in this case that's the case.
It also needs some extra payload and therefore we actually have an action which is an object with identifier
and payload and therefore here I'll add a function that creates me such a action object and I'll named
as toggle favorite like this.
Select identifier button camel case and this is a function that can receive some data because I will
be the one calling it and that should return a javascript object which describes does action so which
has let's say a type.
That's typically how you call that identifier field but you're generally free to use whatever you want
there.
And in my case the will be toggle favorite.
So I a point at this identifier I use this string as an identifier and then any extra data you want.
For example here I'll need to add the meal ideas of the meal which should be toggled and that means
that dysfunction also needs to get decided as I input because otherwise I can't store it in the action
which I create.
So this is my action creator for the toggle favorite action now in the reducer.
I want to act when I get such a toggle favorite action and for this I'll use a pattern which you probably
have seen.
If you work with redux before I'll use a switch statement here and switch on my action type because
keep in mind that action will be an object with a type property which identifies the action that occurred.
So I switch on that action type and then I handle different cases for the different actions I might
have.
So here I have the toggle favorite action for this you need to import toggle favorite from actions meals
and that's why I'm storing this into separate constant because now I don't have to manually type toggle
favorites where I might have a typo in there.
Instead I just use that constant in which the string is stored and now here I run whichever logic I
want to run to then work with that action and change my state such that the meal with the meal right.
That's part of my action is added to favorite meals or removed from there if it already was part because
it's a toggle action here.
I want to add items that aren't favorites yet I want to remove items that are side note in the switch
statement.
I also will add a default case where it just returned the unchanged state.
We shouldn't really reached that but in case we do well and that's what we do.
But back to the toggle favorite case in there.
I now want to in the end find out whether my meal with the idea that's part of the action because I'm
adding delight to the action.
If Dad meals already part of favorite meals.
If yes I want to remove it.
If it's not I want to add it so for this I'll start by finding the index of the meal.
Any favorite meals array because if Dad is 10 minus one I know I didn't find the index so it wasn't
part.
If that's greater or equal in cereal I know that the item was part of that so I'll have my existing
index here and I get this by using state favorite meals whips and they're the equals sign and state
is simply my current state snapshot which I get and there will have a favorite meals property and I
can use to find index method or normal javascript method which I can use all on arrays to get the index
of an item that matches a certain criteria which I set up here in a function I pass to find the next
dysfunction runs on every meal in the array and if it returns true then it gives me the index of the
element for which it ran through.
So here I want to return true if meal dot I.D. is equal to action dot meal idea that simply means that
the meal I'm looking at in my favorite meals has the same idea SD meal for which is actual calories
and dad means if that is true for any item and favorite meals that the meal we're trying to toggle is
already part of the favorites so we'll have to remove it because this will now return us to index of
the item.
Therefore existing index will be greater than minus one and therefore we can then use that index to
remove it.
If this returns true for no item.
So if Disney and returns minus one I note that the item isn't part of favorite meals yet so existing
index holds very important information and hence I will use it here native state and a check if existing
index is greater or equal than 0 which means we already have that meal as part of the favorite meals
or not.
Now in the if case soda item already is part of the favorite meals I want to remove it.
So here I will in the end return and use state because in your reducer in the end you have to return
and use state which is a new object where I first of all copy the existing state with the spread operator
here.
Pull out all the key value pairs of the existing states so that they don't lose any state and don't
override any state.
I don't want to overwrite and then I will only overwrite the favorite meals so I'll add this property
again to override the existing favorite meals with my new favorite meals which shouldn't even be the
old favorite meals without the item on this index.
Now here to get my updated favorite meals I'll create a new constant updated fare of meals there I will
first of all create a new array and populated with my existing meals so move my existing favorite meals
like this and I do this to create a copy of that array so that I don't manipulate the original array
if I now start working on that because now I want to take my updated fare have meals called splice here
and then removed the item at the existing index and only that item.
So this will in the end take this updated fast meals index added it and remove the item at this index
and added this array.
That's why I copied it so that I don't edit the original array and now we can use it as updated fav
meals array here and stored this back as favorite meals into our store because that will be the favorite
meals array without the meal we just removed.
In the Ellis case which is of course relevant if we're not finding a product we want to add it here.
I also want to return and use state where I first of all copy the old state and then I will overwrite
favorite meals to basically be my old favorite meals.
And now I can call Kong cat a javascript method built into while javascript which returns a new array
which takes the older and adds a new item and there I want to add the meal for Dad ideas here.
And of course I can find that meal on my state dinner on meals does this property state here always
refers just to this state structure here by the way.
And now here I can find the meal which I want to add.
And since this gets very long I'll actually outsource this into a new line.
So my meal which I want to add can be found with the fine method which runs on all meals and there if
my like is equal to action dog meal idea then I have the meal I want to add and it's this meal which
I concatenate to my favorite meals so that they add this to that array that should be logic that works
and that manages our favorites.
Now we need to make sure that we actually dispatch this action whenever we click that star icon in our
header
to dispatch the action.
Let's go to the meal detailed screen because that's where we have our star.
I can hear and when I press this button I in the end want dispatch action.
Good news is dispatching actions is very easy.
We got to use selector.
We also got use dispatch which in the end gives us an easy way of firing a function.
The bad news is that this of course can only be used in the component body here in our functional component
and not in the navigation options.
So we'll again have to work with set parents to communicate between navigation options and the component
but that is something we can of course do so here in meal detail screen.
I'll simply start by calling use dispatch and what this does is it gives us a dispatch function of function
we can call to dispatch new actions and I'll store in a constant named dispatch next I want to create
a toggle favorite handler which is a function which in the end should dispatched his action.
So here I want to call this patch which I have a way to little thanks to this hook.
And now to dispatch I need to forward the action which I want to dispatch.
And for this I'll use this action create or toggle favorite here.
So we just have to import this import
from the store folder there from actions and there from the meals chairs file from there.
I want to import toggle favorite not the identifier in all caps but this action create or function with
it imported here in dispatch we can call toggle favorite like this and now here we need to forward the
idea and that of course is the meal ideas which we're already extracting up there
or selected meal ideas would also work whatever you want.
Ultimately go for the meal idea like this.
Now we can reactive wait use effect to communicate to our header not with this line though but instead
with props navigation set paradigms and now here all named as toggle Pfaff to name is up to you and
point at my toggle favorite handler.
Now toggle favorite handler should therefore be added as a dependency here and to a wide infinite loops
all again use use callback which I import from react to wrap this function here.
So here use callback is wrapped around this function and we need to specify dependencies here.
And dependency number one is dispatch.
React read X will make sure that this never changes though so that's a dependency which will never change
dependency to his meal idea.
That also shouldn't change you elsewhere on this page.
It will always have the same value so as that this function shouldn't really be recreated which means
this effect will never rerun unless it's recreated which only is the case if we had a new idea in which
case it would be good that this is recreated but otherwise this won't change and hence we should have
a secure communication channel here.
Now in the header we can now extract that handler by the way.
We also don't need to be Lady here anymore.
We can now simply get the toggle favorite function out of our navigation data navigation get param and
then I named that toggle fast so that's the param name which we can extract and this should give us
access to this function which we pass now toggle favorite is what should actually be executed when we
press this button.
So here I will point its toggle favorite because this holds a pointer at this function and therefore
dysfunction will be executed when we now press this star well we'll see if that works.
Let's save that and go back to the spaghetti here and click this star and click to favorites and that
looks good.
Spaghetti are part of the favorites.
Let's take the star again here and go to favorites and it's gone.
That makes a lot of sense.
Click it again it's back go to the detail page here and the favorites tab and click on the star and
go back while it's gone.
That's all the verified on Android for the schnitzel maybe favorites is empty right now let's go back
and click the star go to favorites.
Here it is go back click the star and it's gone so this logic generally works.
There are a couple of things I still want to work on for example I want to change the icon based on
the favorite status.
I also want to show some text and the favorite screen when it's empty but generally dispatching and
using the data works even if we need it in a header.